README.md, before:

# phlib/flysystem-pdo

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/phlib/flysystem-pdo/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phlib/flysystem-pdo)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/phlib/flysystem-pdo.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/phlib/flysystem-pdo)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/phlib/flysystem-pdo.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/phlib/flysystem-pdo)

This is a [PDO](http://php.net/manual/en/class.pdo.php) Adapter for the Leagues [Flysystem](http://php.net/manual/en/class.pdo.php).

* Uses multiple tables.
* Stores files in chunks.
* Option to compress the file when stored.

This implementation is optimised for use with large files when using the streams. It avoids loading the complete file
into memory, preferring to store files during operation on the local file system.

## Usage
```php
use Phlib\Flysystem\Pdo\PdoAdapter;
use League\Flysystem\Filesystem;

$pdo        = new \PDO('mysql:host=hostname;dbname=database_name', 'username', 'password');
$adapter    = new PdoAdapter($pdo);
$filesystem = new Filesystem($adapter);
```

## Configuration

|Name|Type|Default|Description|
|----|----|-------|-----------|
|table_prefix|*String*|`flysystem`|Prepends all tablenames.|
|enable_compression|*Boolean*|`true`|Compresses a file stored in DB.|
|chunk_size|*Integer*|`1,048,576`|Changes the size of file chunks stored. Defaults to 1MB.|
|temp_dir|*String*|`sys_get_temp_dir()`|Location to store temporary files when they're stored and retrieved.|
|enable_mysql_buffering|*Boolean*|`false`|Stops large file results being pulled into memory|

Commit message:

Add documentation regarding memory usage and chunking

README.md, after:

# phlib/flysystem-pdo

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/phlib/flysystem-pdo/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phlib/flysystem-pdo)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/phlib/flysystem-pdo.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/phlib/flysystem-pdo)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/phlib/flysystem-pdo.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/phlib/flysystem-pdo)

This is a [PDO](http://php.net/manual/en/class.pdo.php) Adapter for the Leagues [Flysystem](http://php.net/manual/en/class.pdo.php).

* Uses multiple tables.
* Stores files in chunks.
* Option to compress the file when stored.

This implementation is optimised for use with large files when using the streams. It avoids loading the complete file
into memory, preferring to store files during operation on the local file system.

## Usage
```php
use Phlib\Flysystem\Pdo\PdoAdapter;
use League\Flysystem\Filesystem;

$pdo        = new \PDO('mysql:host=hostname;dbname=database_name', 'username', 'password');
$adapter    = new PdoAdapter($pdo);
$filesystem = new Filesystem($adapter);
```

## Configuration

|Name|Type|Default|Description|
|----|----|-------|-----------|
|table_prefix|*String*|`flysystem`|Prepends all tablenames.|
|enable_compression|*Boolean*|`true`|Compresses a file stored in DB.|
|chunk_size|*Integer*|`1,048,576`|Changes the size of file chunks stored in bytes. Defaults to 1MB.|
|temp_dir|*String*|`sys_get_temp_dir()`|Location to store temporary files when they're stored and retrieved.|
|disable_mysql_buffering|*Boolean*|`true`|Stops large file results being pulled into memory|

## Memory Usage (and gotchas)

Any use of `read`, `write` or `update` with large files will cause problems with memory usage. The associated stream 
methods have been optimised to use as little memory as possible. The adapter first saves the file to the local 
filesystem before transferring it to the database.

### Buffering

On MySQL, the default behaviour is to buffer all query results. When reading a file back from the database this could 
cause memory problems. There is a configuration option which disables the buffering. This has the side effect that the 
pdo connection specified in the constructor is altered to set this attribute.

### Compression

Compression is especially useful when storing text based files. The compression option defaults to on. The side effect 
of this is that when reading files back some files may cause larger than expected memory usage. As an example, a very 
large file filled with a single letter 'a', can be compressed to a tiny size. When that file is read, the tiny chunk is 
expanded and will fill the memory.

When a file is stored, the setting for compression is stored with it. This can not be changed.

## Chunking

Chunking has been implemented to aid where systems have been set up for replication. Packet sizes are a consideration 
here.
